[Music]
seven types of love but only one will
last forever
what is love philosophers poets and
scientists have tried to answer this
question for centuries in the 1980's
American psychologist Robert Sternberg
developed the triangular theory of love
to provide an answer his theory explains
that love is an interaction between
three things emotional intimacy passion
and commitment and you should certainly
listen to Sternberg as he's one of the
most cited psychologists of the 20th
century according to the scientific
journal review of general psychology
from this model
Sternberg later created distinctions
between the seven types of love to
accurately explain the crazy emotions we
feel toward our partner check to see if
you've experienced any of them and if
you've reached number one but before you
quiz yourself don't forget to click the
subscribe button and turn on the
notifications to be one of the first
bright ciders to watch our videos number
seven infatuation this is the place
where romantic love usually begins it's
that messy stage of crazy feelings and
burning passion that makes you feel like
you're the king or queen of the world
have you experienced it with this type
of love the two people don't know many
intimate details about one another and
yet they feel a strong mutual attraction
the partners couldn't tell you about the
others deep secrets desires or most
important goals in life but they could
tell you what they find romantic
attractive and sexually desirable there
is no idea of commitment here it's all
about fun and passion this type of love
can transform into something more over
time if emotional intimacy and
commitment are added into the mix but
this doesn't always happen many couples
don't get beyond this type of love and
prefer to move from one infatuated
relationship to the next number six
liking
in this type of relationship you can
always be yourself you don't have to
pretend or hide anything here people are
united by common interests views on life
in the feeling of being understood a
couple can say what the other person
considers their favorite hobby what
their close circles of friends look like
and what their dreams are they can
recall trivial details from knowing that
their partner had pasta for lunch -
knowing that their partner's greatest
goal in life is helping others they are
very strong in the emotional intimacy
area which leads to feelings of trust
loyalty friendship and bonding toward
the other person this type of love
doesn't necessarily develop into
romantic love liking without passion and
commitment will more likely result in a
very close and fulfilling friendship
than full-fledged love but partners can
start a relationship as intimate friends
and discover that feelings of passion
developed later on number 5 empty love
couples experiencing this type of love
are very committed to one another the
word empty refers to a lack of emotional
intimacy in passion this type of
relationship sometimes appears after a
big and intense love that faded over
time in other situations such as
arranged marriages empty love can be a
starting point that later evolves into a
full romantic love with passion and
intimacy in either case intimacy and
passion can be brought in if this is the
type of love you're experiencing don't
worry too much about it this type of
love means that the partners show their
love for each other through their
commitment to one another the
relationship is particularly strong in
matters of faithfulness and stability
number 4 fatuous love this type of love
includes commitment and passion it is
familiar to many couples it exists when
two people are really attracted to each
other and are ready to take the next
steps of getting married in sharing
responsibilities they feel so passionate
about each other that they are willing
to make certain commitments
but emotional intimacy is out of the
picture here to the outsider they look
great with each other and other people
can't imagine anything ever separating
them you might see a couple who look so
passionate and committed to each other
that it's a little embarrassing to be in
their presence though they feel
passionate and might even live together
they might not perceive each other as
friends and might not associate
friendship with marriage in terms of
passion they will turn to each other for
romance sex fun and adventure in terms
of commitment they will also seek each
other out to be a stable force in life
when it comes to something that deeply
hurts them or something about which they
feel embarrassed or vulnerable they
might turn away and seek emotional
intimacy from friends and family such
couples can live together for a long
time but their happiness depends on the
fact that the partners don't require
emotional intimacy from each other
number three
romantic love this kind of love is a
combination of passion and emotional
intimacy many romance movies show
couples experiencing the romantic type
of love they show you how it takes two
people years to find each other and then
they go through a series of problems
before finally getting back together at
the end if they don't show what happens
after they reunite or they avoid a
wedding scene at the end that represents
the romantic type of love these couples
are deeply attracted to each other and
share intimate experiences with one
another but they're not ready to make
serious commitments they consider each
other friends and feel linked to the
other person this isn't always enough to
make them want to commit though and some
relationships of this type don't reach
the level of cohabitation or marriage
commitment might be desired by one
partner but not the other
they could also both live happily
together without making legal or
spiritual commitments to one another
number two companion at love this type
of love can be seen in couples who live
together are deeply committed to one
another and treat each other as friends
companionate love is built on commitment
and emotional intimacy
such relationships are much stronger
than an ordinary friendship and there's
a true attachment between the partners
this is a rather chaste agreement
because this type of love lacks passion
so romance kissing and sex are usually
not involved these couples like to spend
time together they might like the same
hobbies and can be in the same space and
doing separate things but since passion
is non-existent don't expect to see one
bringing flowers to the other
companionate love can develop after many
years of being married or it can be the
arrangement from the start this type of
love can also be seen in relationships
between family members in platonic
relationships with friends number 1
consummate love consummate love is also
called complete love in the Sternberg
model it involves the three components
of his theory coming together passion +
emotional intimacy + commitment this
creates a vision of the ideal type of
love couples that fit this type might
continue to be sexually intimate for the
rest of their lives talking long into
the night about how their day went and
the things that are most important to
them they remain loyal to one another
year after year you rarely see this type
of relationship if people manage to
build them it's cause for admiration in
this type of love the levels of passion
emotional intimacy and commitment aren't
perfectly balanced but it's important to
note that they're all present if a
couple lives with consummate love but
one of the components like passion
starts to wear off
they might go into companionate love if
you wish to reach or regain consummate
love and haven't made it just know that
this process takes a long time in a lot
of efforts once you have it maintaining
consummate love will take a lot of hard
work to stay at this level couples must
continue working on their relationship
year after year
[Music]
if you find yourself between two types
of love remember that these
classifications aren't black and white
some couples move in and out of the
categories in evolve to reach consummate
love others might be perfectly happy
living as companions or romantic
partners achieving a certain type of
love might be very important to a couple
others might prefer to take a more
laid-back approach it's all about
personal preference share this video
with the person that makes your heart
beat faster and tell us if you've
experienced any of these types of love
are you looking to achieve a particular
one or do you like where you're at right
now let us know in the comments section
don't forget to click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life